David Dobervich (he/him):Okay,really,
Bradley Scholten: how's it going? How do you feel?I feel fine like still, not like a little bit of like cold symptoms, you know, like a little bit of coughing, stuffy nose. But I feel like good like,and just gotta wait for a test orMonday like after ten days, even if you are testing positive. They say you have to come back to work anyways. So too long.
David Dobervich (he/him): And just like, okay,cool.Here's aHere's what we did during Halloween.
Bradley Scholten: Whoa! That's a big tree,
David Dobervich (he/him): very cool, like stuff hanging from the ceiling.
Bradley Scholten: Very nice. Yeah.
David Dobervich (he/him): So I just uh making the slides for today. I am uploading the video from yesterday.Um, what's next in the grand scheme
Bradley Scholten: in the grand scheme? Um.Let's see here, plop in the calendarall right umin the grand scheme. So Isomething still messed up with this video. Sorry, is it?
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, I wonder if it only partially uploaded? What's the file size on your hard drive.
Bradley Scholten: Oh, it does. Still saying it's uploading right now. It says sixty. One uploaded. That's weird. Because yesterday it said it was fully uploaded.Hmm.I'll check on it in a moment to see if it changes from sixty. One. Oh, there it just moved to sixty, two, soI guess I Let's just wait, and i'll do it at the end. Yeah, I guess it's taken four K: That must be why it's taking so long.Um!So I skipped a a probability lesson.Um,and I think I need to go back to it, which is going to be just sort of showing them thethe conditional probability thing like when you rearrange it, you get the the general multiplication rule, which again, they already sort of knew about likeum. But then having some practice with that, and probably some general practice.
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
Bradley Scholten: Um. So the only other thing next week is to talk about completely randomized design.
David Dobervich (he/him): Oh, great.Oh, cause it's.
Bradley Scholten: But we have no Friday next week.Hmm. Hold on. Let me think about this here.Yeah, because we pushed some things around, and I didn't realize I forgot about that.Okay,Mhm.Um.Then, yeah, we should.We should do something on that day with a probability lessonnumber nine and ten down here. No, It's B. A. B. A:
David Dobervich (he/him): That's pretty irritating,
Bradley Scholten: very irritating.Um. And thenokay, Well, that means Monday. Tuesday. Oh, shoot, Okay,That means we need video and video notes for next week.Shootlike to hand out next classum, And it's about completely randomized design.
David Dobervich (he/him): So the good news is that's probably pretty fast to put together.Is your next class tomorrow?
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, that's irritating. Okay? Uh:because the problem is like I could probably do it during first block tomorrow, or maybe I could even do it before first block tomorrow.
Bradley Scholten: I mean, that would befine,becauseif i'm not there,then they would probably only watch the video like during the last half hour of class.Um!And then, if I was there, then it would just be for homework. And so it doesn't need to be readyactually during that time.So if you think you could pull something togetherreal fast on that, otherwise we could always just go with just pulling coning's video over and using his notes for last year,
David Dobervich (he/him): because a lot of it is. Repeat from my original video, plus a couple of extra things like blindingplacebo.And then like being clear about how you write up your procedurefactor, response levels, treatments, et cetera.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,Um.Cool.Alright.Just just things here.Okay,Um:Okay.So that sounds good. Andwhat is coning thing from last year with regard to that, Is that good enough for us.
David Dobervich (he/him): Wait! What's this other end? Oh, Rams block design
Bradley Scholten: is the Sashini chairman Still Good.I mean, I think it's acceptable.
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, let's see that
Bradley Scholten: Okay,Um,um. Keep forgetting to to askwhich is, you know, students asked a lot last year, and then I had the same question, and I think you had the same question, What is the difference between a factor and a level?Yeah. Good question. I was going to try and decide
David Dobervich (he/him): before I made the notes. Um,
Bradley Scholten: It sort of seems like Factor is possibly like the big umbrella term,and like level is like the specifics within that,because like here, factor is
David Dobervich (he/him): factor is a way of referring to your categorical variable.That's your um explanatory variable.And in fact, our levels are the possible values that the factor can take.
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
David Dobervich (he/him): So I will be explicit with this in the notes.
Bradley Scholten: I'm: gotcool.Um.And to ask,Okay,making new folders and stuff,All right? Yeah. Theobviously copies of the the video notes whenever you finish those up and then um the activity for sampling methods,which was like the farm thing which i'm moving over right now.
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
Bradley Scholten: cool,All right. Um.And thenwe also need to plan three point five, since there'sjust block design.That's block design. Yeah,um.So I guess. Let's look atwhatDerek did last yearfor the notes and see if there's anything in there thatwe think really should be changed.Let's see.All right. I'm sharing my screen.
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, I was just looking at that.So anything in you, as usual. Let's just make itlike less verbose,and try and like visually organize it a little bit more clearly.
Bradley Scholten: Okay, do you have like?Do you have like a visual that you're thinking of doing for this next set of videos that we could just sort of go through,orI was just trying to think like, should we just like,you know, If you come up with a visual, then like we'll stick with that since you're the first sort of video for this.Oh, and um. Another question. Is it your understanding that students either needlike the words like the bullet points up here, or a diagram like below? Not necessarily both. Is that what you understood to or
David Dobervich (he/him): no?I didn't have an understanding. I always said both, but it did seem a little redundant,but, like just having the diagram doesn't Feel like quite enough.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
David Dobervich (he/him): because you're not clearly identifying stuff like the factorand the treatments.Is this diagram like a like an Ap. Thing.
Bradley Scholten: Um, I feel like it is. Let me see if I can findum.I feel like there was an fr qu of the day sort of thingthat we did.And when I googled, you know, for the how did it college boardcome up with thisthat theyI feel like gave likeI thought it could be like one or the other two thousand number five.So when it's earlier.Okay,stats.Okay,so describes or gives a detailed diagram,and in the descriptionthey need.So this is for just a regular experiment, random assignment,identification of treatment groups,and an indication that a comparison or measurement should be made at the end,and they're just like their diagrams Have just that, just like random subjects. Next grouptreatments.Compare this at the end,and then the same thing with block design, because it was like a first create it this way, now created with the block design.SoI don't know. Do we want to tell them that it should be one or the other, or do we want to tell them? Do both?
David Dobervich (he/him): Um,I want to tell them do both, but maybea modified version of both. What do we actually Let's certainly have the diagramthat covers assignmentsthat covers blockingthat coverssubjects.So let's say they need to do.Let's say they need to do uhfactorresponse or like factor plus levels and response, because that's identifying the explanatory and response variables.They need to identify the treatmentand blinding. And then the diagramwhich covers everything else.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah.Oh, wait, I guess. Actually, my question is, what's the difference between levels and treatments, because that's always the thing.That's what I remember now is that that's always like the same as levels was always what we wrote for treatments.What's the difference? Then?
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
Bradley Scholten: let's see. Is your vocab.Okay, A level? The specific value. Okay. Treatments: The controlled circumstances applied to experimental groups made of different levels of single factors or combinations of two or more factor levels.Okay, the sense I have is the treatment represents each combination of factor levels.Okay, so like this would be a scenario if let's sayso, We We wouldn't write same as levels in this scenario where it's like. Let's say we were interested in weight loss.We have a pill.We have exercise as our two sort ofexplanatory variables.And so we're gonna go like this groupis gonna just get the pill. No exercise. This other group is gonna get exercise note just and no pill. This group's gonna get neither of those. This group has to do both. That would be a scenario where we wouldn't just write treatment same as levels. Okay,that's what I was describing it last year, andas I was saying it, I felt really good about it.And then I never went back to confirm that I was saying actually the right things.Okay,Soback to the visual.So you don't you.What of coning's? Sort of write ups and stuff like that? Do you likefor randomized blockslike. Obviously there's an extra bullet point in here because of blocking.But like,if you were like, if this is your first shot at just sort of like. Oh, I want them to sort of write some stuff, and then I want them toum draw a diagram like,How would you organize it, or what makes sense to you.
David Dobervich (he/him): Let me think about it.So it follows a little bit what I did in my three D. One notes,so I would have them explicitly right the population of interest,and then indicate how the subjects or the experimental units were sampled from the population of interest,which is something that the block diagram leaves out. The block diagram just starts with. We have one hundred and three Ap. St. Students,whereas I would start with like population of interest. Ap stats, students,you know, like like in like worldwide ap St. Students, or like American ap stats, students or something.And then I would indicate, likesimple random sample or convenient sample, or whateverthat gives you your one hundred and three Ap. St. Students. So for us it's a convenient sample.Assuming these are like our students. Um,you know, just to be like fully explicit about what's going on here. Um,Then I like for blocking. I like. I like this indication of the two blocks. That's fine.Um!I like this indication of how are we doing the random assignmentin uh to the treatments?I think it would be niceto visually indicate, like, what's the control, and what are the kind of test ones
Bradley Scholten: this bracketing for showing how the comparison happens?Is there any benefit to like having them?Maybe in the beginning stating what type of design they're doing before jumping in? Because i'm noticing like, and the bullet points over here. Blocking comes like the fifth one down, but that feels like something that you need to think about. I know it says up here like create a randomized block design. So it's kind of given,but it feels like one of those things Works like you should be thinking about. That, actually, initially, is like,Is there a reason to block here?And why?
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, like that?
Bradley Scholten: Uh, let me write this down
David Dobervich (he/him): so initially, like type of study. And If the type of study is experiment, then it's like like type of experiment, or like experimental design type.Um,let's have them List factor, which is explanatory variableand response,and maybe levels also there,
Bradley Scholten: Apparently you're not missing much at your your schoology traininguh the schoology leads aren't even there right now.
David Dobervich (he/him): I didn't even know that was happening.
Bradley Scholten: They canceled the meetinguh terra text Texas last night, and was like, Oh, man, like you guys are so lucky you're out. Let me get this stupid training. We're like what?
David Dobervich (he/him): All right?Yeah. So So they really The only difference in what we've said so far is, let's have the first thing be the type of study.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay.
Bradley Scholten: Video: three point three is ninety, six uploaded.So it should be done soon.
David Dobervich (he/him): And I mean, likeall of this, skips over like what is the actual experimental protocol?But they won't. They Won't usually be writing that down.
Bradley Scholten: What do you mean by that.But I just wanted to say out loud that we're skipping that.What do you mean by the experimental protocol? What do you
David Dobervich (he/him): so like in my example where it was like we were. We have a hair growth formula.You can't just send your test group home and be like. Use This you have to, you know, give enough precision that your test subjects are using it in the same way.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah, there is a lot of yeah. We send students home to do these problems, like,you know,like one?Are they actually going to do it? And then towhat does it mean to do? A problem, you know, like there's different levels of what students know.Right? You're like study for thirty minutes, and some students study with their phone and stuff. You can study without their phone.Okay? Um:Well,I feel pretty good.Uh, can you check to see if the videoisgood Now it says that it's synced. But Then there's this other one with a bunch of weird suffix letters and dashes that says it's still uploading, so
David Dobervich (he/him): I do not see an uploaded one yet. Right. We've got the suffix one,
Bradley Scholten: but you don't see one that doesn't have the suffix.All right. Let me see if I can. Is it? Are we done enough that I can go to the restroom.What inspiration I get to do! The next video notes for the block designsounds good.